let's take a look at the top 20 features
in Windows 8 starting with number one
the Metro Start screen this is the new
place to launch applications and it
includes updating live tiles that you
can regroup as you desire the new start
screen increases your flexibility of
course for those who prefer the
traditional desktop experience point 2
shows us that this still exists in
Windows 8 you have a traditional desktop
that looks much like Windows 7
applications that you ran in Windows 7
will also run in Windows 8 point 3 takes
us to the Metro apps that are part of
the new Metro Start screen these apps
are full screen and are easily installed
beautiful and completely immersive Metro
apps offer a new way to work with
Windows of course you need to be able to
get Metro apps in the first place and
that brings us to 0.4 which is the
Windows Store this is integrated into
Windows 8 and offers Metro style apps
and soon will also offer desktop apps
the tile is right on the Start screen
and looks like a shopping bag when you
click it it opens the Microsoft Store
which you can search for all sorts of
apps
number five is that Windows 8 is tablet
ready so unlike previous versions of
Windows that were not built for tablets
Windows 8 has been built from the ground
up as either a tablet or desktop
operating system giving you the best of
both worlds so on the go enjoy the new
Metro style interface and also the
classic desktop experience all in one
number six is Internet Explorer 10 for
Metro Windows 8 ships with two versions
of Internet Explorer 10 the classic
desktop version and a new full-screen
immersive browser that is currently the
fastest on the market lightweight and
easy to use Internet Explorer 10 for
Metro offers a new way to surf the web
number seven is the touch interface
itself in Windows 8 which allows you to
use a variety of touch commands as well
as explore other features of touch in
the interface number eight is SkyDrive
connectivity SkyDrive is not a new
feature however it's tight integration
into Windows is in Windows 8 the data
that you store in the cloud is easily
accessible on all your Windows 8 devices
and the files you store in the cloud are
easily viewable on your tablet your
phone or other Windows 8 device and
SkyDrive soon will support large file
sizes meaning you can transfer files
that are up to two gigabytes in size
number nine is the charms bar notice
it's here on the right side of the
screen and this is a replacement for the
start button that formerly existed on
the lower left of the screen options
here include search share start devices
and settings and did you notice the new
windows logo yes those four turquoise
tiles above the word start represent the
new windows logo
10th is the search bar now search is not
new to Windows however the search
feature in Windows 8 is so powerful that
it definitely deserves to be in the top
20 features of Windows 8
number eleven is a feature in Windows 8
called snap - this allows you to
multitask Metro apps so you won't be
stuck with just one Metro app at a time
if you'd like you can use multiple ones
by snapping them together on screen or
you can snap Metro apps to your classic
desktop applications again giving you
the best of both worlds number 12 is a
new feature in our control panel called
recovery allowing you to refresh or
reset your PC these are two new options
that are offered in addition to the
existing system restore and other
recovery options that still exist in
Windows
number thirteen is the simplified
settings that exist the control panel
still exists in Windows but now it's
accompanied by something new notice that
a new PC settings option is available
this allows you access to several of the
same commands but in a simplified format
so you don't have to dig so deep in the
control panel to find some simple
options
number fourteen is a new feature called
storage spaces storage spaces allows you
to pool different hard drives and access
data across them as though they were one
large hard drive all these drives will
show up as one single drive letter
pooling these devices together number
fifteen is file history which is a new
and easier way to backup and restore
files once turned on you'll find that
it's easy to get files back if they're
lost or damaged number sixteen is the
unified menu system which now in Windows
includes the ribbon and quick access
toolbar that were introduced in office
2007 these are now standard features of
the Windows operating system
number 17 is windows reader this is a
native PDF reader which is included in
Windows 8 so you won't need an extra
application if you'd like to simply read
or markup PDF files Windows reader
accomplishes this and is bundled in
Windows 8 number 18 is a new simple
video application
it's a metro app and it's simply called
video you'll be happy to know that both
Windows Media Player and Windows Media
Center are also still part of Windows 8
but this gives you another alternative
if you'd like to simply play a video
number 19 is the integrated social
networking that exists throughout
Windows 8 applications like socialite or
Twitter ama allow you to post directly
to Facebook or Twitter and you'll find
these among the metro tiles and that
brings us to number 20 the reduced
hardware requirements of Windows 8 this
is perhaps one of the most important
features for many that is having the
ability to actually run the operating
system when you look at these
requirements one gigahertz or faster
processor 1 gigabyte of RAM and 16
gigabytes of available harddrive space
it's obvious that these are not steep
hardware requirements in fact machines
that run Windows 7 and Windows Vista
already meet these requirements listed
here and it's important to know that
many systems that currently run Windows
XP will also be able to run Windows 8 so
you may have all the existing Hardware
right now that you need in order to run
this operating system well those are
your top 20 features in Windows 8 thanks
for watching and I'll see you in the
next clip